docs: configuring multi and single root workspaces (#2720)
codenvy/che-docs: modules/administration-guide/pages/configuring-single-and-multiroot-workspaces.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
:description: Configuring single and multiroot workspaces
:keywords: singleroot, multiroot, workspace
:navtitle: Configuring single and multiroot workspaces
// :page-aliases:

[id="configuring-single-and-multiroot-workspaces"]
= Configuring single and multi root workspaces

With the multi-root workspace feature, you can work with multiple project folders in the same workspace. This is useful when you are working on several related projects at once, such as product documentation and product code repositories.

[NOTE]
====

> Starting with {prod-short} 3.11, the workspace is set to open in multi-root mode by default.

Reviewer: this is upstream documentation, please refer to the Eclipse Che version

Author: done

====

Once workspace is started, the `</projects/.code-workspace>` workspace file is generated. The workspace file will contain all the projects described in the devfile.

[source,json]
----
{
	"folders": [
		{
			"name": "<project-1>",

> 			"path": "</projects/project-1>"

Reviewer 2: Using the `<` and `>` is confusing (here as well in the rest of the article). A user may consider that as an example and add the `<` and `>` in the code-workspace. Since you are using some example values (`project-1` and `/projects/project-1`) and not a template (`<project-name>` and `<project-path>`) you should remove the `<` and `>`.

Also I think somewhere you should add a link to https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/workspaces as the reference to understand and author VS Code workspace files.

Author: done

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
:description: Configuring single and multiroot workspaces
:keywords: singleroot, multiroot, workspace
:navtitle: Configuring single and multiroot workspaces
// :page-aliases:

[id="configuring-single-and-multiroot-workspaces"]
= Configuring single and multi root workspaces

With the multi-root workspace feature, you can work with multiple project folders in the same workspace. This is useful when you are working on several related projects at once, such as product documentation and product code repositories.

TIP: See link:https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/workspaces[What is a VS Code "workspace"] for better understanding and authoring the workspace files.

[NOTE]
====

> Starting with {prod-short} 7.73.0, the workspace is set to open in multi-root mode by default.

Reviewer 3: @ibuziuk @vitaliy-guliy do you want to keep this information in the doc? we'd have to make it into a tiny excerpt with separate info for upstream and downstream

Author: We could omit mentioning the version and leave only the fact that the workspace is set to open in multi-root mode by default.

Reviewer: I'm ok to omit it, we just need to mention that multi-root is default

====

Once workspace is started, the `/projects/.code-workspace` workspace file is generated. The workspace file will contain all the projects described in the devfile.

[source,json]
----
{
	"folders": [
		{
			"name": "project-1",
			"path": "/projects/project-1"
		},
		{
			"name": "project-2",
			"path": "/projects/project-2"
		}
	]
}
----

If the workspace file already exist, it will be updated and all missing projects will be taken from the devfile.
If you remove a project from the devfile, it will be left in the workspace file.

You can change the default behavior and provide your own workspace file or switch to a single-root workspace.

.Procedure

* Provide your own workspace file.

** Put a workspace file with the name `.code-workspace` into the root of your repository. After workspace creation, the Visual Studio Code - Open Source ("Code - OSS") will use the workspace file as it is.
+
[source,json]
----
{
	"folders": [
		{
			"name": "project-name",
			"path": "."
		}
	]
}
----
+
[IMPORTANT]
====

> Be careful when creating a workspace file. In case of errors, an empty Visual Studio Code - Open Source ("Code - OSS") will open instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Be careful when creating a workspace file. In case of errors, an empty Visual Studio Code - Open Source ("Code - OSS") will open instead.
```
```suggestion
Be careful when creating a workspace file. In case of errors, an empty Visual Studio Code - Open Source ("Code - OSS") will be opened instead.
```

====
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
If you have several projects, the workspace file will be taken from the first project.
If the workspace file does not exist in the first project, a new one will be created and placed in the `/projects` directory. 
====

* Specify alternative workspace file.

> ** Define the __VSCODE_DEFAULT_WORKSPACE__ environment variable in your devfile and specify the right location to the workspace file.

Reviewer: is it correct formatting?

Author: yes, I've attached a screenshot with the current state to the PR description

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
:description: Configuring single and multiroot workspaces
:keywords: singleroot, multiroot, workspace
:navtitle: Configuring single and multiroot workspaces
// :page-aliases:

[id="configuring-single-and-multiroot-workspaces"]
= Configuring single and multi root workspaces

> Multi-root Workspaces is a feature in Microsoft Visual Studio Code that allows you to work with multiple project folders in the same workspace. This is useful when you are working on several related projects at once. For example, you might have a repository with a product's documentation and another with the product's code.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
With the multi-root workspace feature, you can work with multiple project folders in the same workspace. This is useful when you are working on several related projects at once, such as product documentation and product code repositories.
```

[NOTE]
====

> Starting with Dev Spaces 3.11, the workspace is set to open in multi-root mode by default.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Starting with {prod-short} 3.11, the workspace is set to open in multi-root mode by default.
```

====

> Once workspace is started, the `</projects/.code-workspace>` workspace file is generated. The workspace file will contain all the projects described in the Devfile.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once workspace is started, the `</projects/.code-workspace>` workspace file is generated. The workspace file will contain all the projects described in the devfile.
```

> ====

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
====
```

[source,json]
----
{
	"folders": [
		{
			"name": "<project-1>",
			"path": "</projects/project-1>"
		},
		{
			"name": "<project-2>",
			"path": "</projects/project-2>"
		}
	]
}
----

> ====

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```

> If the workspace file is already exist, it will be updated, all missing projects will be taken from the Devfile.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If the workspace file already exist, it will be updated and all missing projects will be taken from the devfile.
```

> If a project is removed from the Devfile, it will be left in the workspace file.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you remove a project from the devfile, it will be left in the workspace file.
```

> You can change thee default behavior and provide your own workspace file or switch to the single-root workspace.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can change the default behavior and provide your own workspace file or switch to a single-root workspace.
```

.Procedure

.1. Provide your own workspace file.

You can easily use your own workspace file. For that you need to name it `.code-workspace` and put it to the root of your repository. 
Then after workspace creation, the Microsoft Visual Studio Code will use the workspace file as it is.

====
[source,json]
----
{
	"folders": [
		{
			"name": "<project-name>",
			"path": "."
		}
	]
}
----
====

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Provide your own workspace file.

** Put a workspace file with the name `.code-workspace` into the root of your repository. After workspace creation, the Microsoft Visual Studio Code will use the workspace file as it is.
+
[source,json]
----
{
	"folders": [
		{
			"name": "<project-name>",
			"path": "."
		}
	]
}
----
+
```

[IMPORTANT]
====

> Be careful when creating a file. In case of errors, an empty Microsoft Visual Studio Code will be opened.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Be careful when creating a workspace file. In case of errors, an empty Microsoft Visual Studio Code project will open instead.
```

====

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
+
```

[IMPORTANT]
====

> In case you have several projects, the workspace file will be taken from the first project.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you have several projects, the workspace file will be taken from the first project.
```

If the workspace file does not exist in the first project, a new one will be created and placed in the `/projects` directory. 
====

> .2. Specify alternative workspace file.
> 
> You can open Microsoft Visual Studio Code specifying any workspace file on the file system.
> To do that you need to define __VSCODE_DEFAULT_WORKSPACE__ environment variable in your Devfile and specify the right location to the workspace file.
> 
> ====
> [source,yaml]
> ----
>    env:
>      - name: VSCODE_DEFAULT_WORKSPACE
>        value: "</projects/project-name/workspace-file>"
> ----
> ====

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Specify alternative workspace file.

** Define the __VSCODE_DEFAULT_WORKSPACE__ environment variable in your devfile and specify the right location to the workspace file.
+
[source,yaml]
----
   env:
     - name: VSCODE_DEFAULT_WORKSPACE
       value: "</projects/project-name/workspace-file>"
----
```

> .3. Open a workspace in a single-root mode.
> 
> You can open Microsoft Visual Studio Code in single-root mode.
> For that you need to define __VSCODE_DEFAULT_WORKSPACE__ environment variable and set it to the root.
> 
> ====
> [source,yaml]
> ----
>    env:
>      - name: VSCODE_DEFAULT_WORKSPACE
>        value: "</>"
> ----
> ====

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Open a workspace in a single-root mode.

** Define __VSCODE_DEFAULT_WORKSPACE__ environment variable and set it to the root.
+
[source,yaml]
----
   env:
     - name: VSCODE_DEFAULT_WORKSPACE
       value: "</>"
----
```
